[Term Entry] Swift Protocols Decodable #2958 (#3198)
Codecademy/docs: content/swift/concepts/protocols/terms/decodable/decodable.md

---
Title: 'Decodable'
Description: 'A Swift protocol that enables the conversion of data.'
Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'

>   - 'Computer Science'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: we limit subjects to one or two items

Tags:
  - 'Swift'
  - 'iOS'
  - 'JSON'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> `Decodable` is a type in Swift that can convert itself into a structure that conforms to the **`Decodable`** protocol. The `Decodable` protocol is used to easily decode JSON or similar data formats like XML. The required initializer is `init(from: Decoder)` which creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder. The `Decodable` protocol is often used with the `JSONDecoder` class. `Decodable` should be used when there's only a need to read data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Decodable`** protocol is used to easily decode JSON or similar data formats like XML. The required initializer is `init(from: Decoder)` which creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder. The `Decodable` protocol is often used with the `JSONDecoder` class. `Decodable` should be used when there's only a need to read data, when reading and writing are required the `Codable` protocol should be implemented.
```

## Syntax

Create a structure to represent the data to decode, followed by `Decodable` using the standard syntax of a Swift protocol.   

```pseudo
struct DataName: Decodable {
  // Properties that conform to Decodable
}
```

## Example

> In the example below, a structure called User is created and the `Decodable` protocol is used with `JSONDecoder` to convert stored JSON into a data object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, a `User` struct is defined and the `Decodable` protocol is used with `JSONDecoder` to convert stored JSON into a data object.
```

```swift

> struct User: Decodable {
>   var name: String
>   var age: Int
>   var location: String
> }
> 
> let json = """ {
>   "name": "Charlotte Lucas"
>   "age": 27
>   "location": "England"
> }
> """.data(using: .utf8)!
> 
> let decoder = JSONDecoder()
> let user = try decoder.decode(User.self, from: json)
> print(user.name) // Prints "Charlotte Lucas"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import Foundation
struct User: Decodable {
   var name: String
   var age: Int
   var location: String
 }

 let userJson = """
 {
   "name": "Charlotte Lucas",
   "age": 27,
   "location": "England"
 }
 """
 
 let userData = Data(userJson.utf8)

 let decoder = JSONDecoder()
 let user = try decoder.decode(User.self, from: userData)
 print(user.name)
```

Reviewer: we usually use a ```shell block for the output

---
Title: 'Decodable'
Description: 'A Swift protocol that enables the conversion of data.'
Subjects: 
  - 'iOS'
  - 'Mobile Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Swift'
  - 'iOS'
  - 'JSON'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-swift'
  - 'paths/build-ios-apps-with-swiftui'
---

> `Decodable` is a type in Swift that can convert itself into a structure that conforms to the **`Decodable protocol`**. The `Decodable protocol` is used to easily decode JSON or similar data formats like XML. The required initializer is `init(from: Decoder)` which creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder. The `Decodable protocol` is often used with the `JSONDecoder` class. `Decodable` should be used if you only need to read data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Decodable` is a type in Swift that can convert itself into a structure that conforms to the **`Decodable`** protocol. The `Decodable` protocol is used to easily decode JSON or similar data formats like XML. The required initializer is `init(from: Decoder)` which creates a new instance by decoding from the given decoder. The `Decodable` protocol is often used with the `JSONDecoder` class. `Decodable` should be used when there's only a need to read data. 
```

> ## Syntax
> Create a structure to represent the data to decode, followed by `Decodable` using the standard syntax of a Swift protocol.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Syntax

Create a structure to represent the data to decode, followed by `Decodable` using the standard syntax of a Swift protocol.   
```

```pseudo
struct DataName: Decodable {
  // Properties that conform to Decodable
}
```

## Example

> In the example below, a structure called User is created and the `Decodable` protocol is used with `JSONDecoder` to convert JSON stored as a data object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

In the example below, a structure called User is created and the `Decodable` protocol is used with `JSONDecoder` to convert stored JSON into a data object.
```

```swift
struct User: Decodable {
  var name: String
  var age: Int
  var location: String
}

let json = """ {
  "name": "Charlotte Lucas"
  "age": 27
  "location": "England"
}
""".data(using: .utf8)!

let decoder = JSONDecoder()
let user = try decoder.decode(User.self, from: json)
print(user.name) // Prints "Charlotte Lucas"

> 
> ```
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```
````
Remove extra blank lines.
